In Azure Data Factory, you can create a dynamic dataset that selects a database using parameterization and expressions. Here's how you can achieve this:

Create a Linked Service:
Start by creating a linked service that connects to your databases. This linked service will be used to parameterize the database selection.

Create Parameters:
Define parameters for your dataset. In this case, you'll need a parameter for the database name. You can do this by going to the "Author & Monitor" section of your Data Factory, clicking on the "Author" tab, and then selecting "Manage" from the left panel. Under "Parameters", create a parameter, for example, DatabaseName, of type String.

Create a Dynamic Dataset:
Now you'll create a dataset that uses the parameterized linked service. Follow these steps:

a. Click on the "Author & Monitor" section of your Data Factory.
b. Click on the "Author" tab and select the appropriate data store folder (e.g., Azure SQL Database, Azure Synapse Analytics, etc.).
c. Click on the "+ New" button and choose "Dataset".
d. Select the data store type you're working with.

Configure the Dataset:
Fill in the dataset details, and where you need to specify the database name, use the parameter you created earlier. Here's an example using Azure SQL Database:

a. Choose the linked service you created.
b. In the connection properties or connection string, use the expression to refer to the parameter. For example:

perl
Copy code
"connectionString": {
    "type": "Expression",
    "value": {
        "value": "@concat('Server=tcp:<your-server-name>.database.windows.net,1433;Database=', dataset().DatabaseName, ';')",
        "type": "String"
    }
}
Replace <your-server-name> with your actual server name.

Use the Dataset in Activities:
You can now use this dynamic dataset in your pipeline activities. Whenever you trigger the pipeline, you'll need to provide a value for the DatabaseName parameter.

Execute the Pipeline:
When you trigger the pipeline, you'll need to provide the DatabaseName parameter value. This value will be used to dynamically determine the database to connect to.

Remember that the actual configuration might vary based on the specific data store you're working with, but the key idea is to use parameters and expressions to create a dynamic dataset that can select a database based on the provided parameter value.
